Okay? No, I think those are all the questions we're good to get started. I'll hit record.
Great.
Alright! We're live!
So I've done.
Talk many times, and I always like to start it off with a conversation before I get into any of my.
Spiel.
Which I've done more times than I can count, so it's more about making sure I have a good sense of.
What would be the most helpful to share.
With all of you, and what conversation we should have about customer, because.
Like I've said it's bedrock for us. We already put you through a lot for the application process.
I would love to get your initial.
Feedback on what you're still hoping to learn and get better at. With respect to customer discovery in the spirit of it leading to greater. You know, understanding of your customers, and more sales for your businesses.
But also your thoughts on the process. So far, what we've exposed you to the mattress, the materials.
Some of you have been through this process more than once, so you probably have even deeper understanding of.
You know what this is all about.
So with that being said, I just wanted to open the floor 1st to get any initial thoughts, questions you were hoping to learn.
Yeah. Great. Dave, yeah.
Yeah, I'll I'll go if no one else. So thank you very much for the the mattress. I I love that and here's what I'm struggling with personally, which is like.
I have. I have a lot of customers, and they're all on discord, and they talk to me all the time.
But I I kind of feel like it's the same 5 customers that talk to me all the time, and so like.
As this. I I kind of want to know.
The customers who are not talking to me, the people who are not on my discord channel the people who bought my 1st game but did not buy my second game.
Those are the ones I kind of want to get to. And so like as we start to go through this exercise. If you could help me figure out how to get to.
Not my Diehard customers, because those guys are hard to.
There's 1 right outside my window right now, like they're they're hard to get away from, but like the ones you know, that are are not sort of volunteering their time and the energy into engaging with me. That's why I really feel like I need to understand and.
Be really helpful to understand and do that.
That's excellent. Yeah. Cause you know, Diehards are, you're almost gonna get them, you know, no matter what.
Whereas the ones that you want to learn more about to get more of you're gonna have to do some digging. I love that Dave, and I appreciate you framing that. So I'll be. I wrote that down, and I'll make sure I address that at some point.
Alright, agent, lunar team.
Hey? So we I think we mentioned this before, hey? Like we love the jobs to be done. I think that was our favorite part of the application process, because.
It. We had a very.
Clear
Because persona in mind. But through going through that process we started to figure out, okay, there's actually some potential segments we've not thought about here that we've started to test.
But I guess where we are.
Struggling at the moment is
We, we have 4 potential segments. But.
All 4 of them.
From our interviews and from the using the prototype are excited. But in order to.
How can I say this in order for them to get value.
It's it's 4 very different products and very much determines what we build next. So it's kind. It's obviously we can't build 4 products for them. But then the fear is, if we.
Don't build what they need. How can we truly test whether they.
The right customers. So I guess we're just struggling with that like, how do we.
Get confident on that decision. Is that a fair? Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah. Agent lunar team. I've been so excited screening committee to work with you guys. Because that is exactly what we're gonna work on in the next 3 days as well as in my business blueprint workshop. Next week I have a feeling in the next 2 weeks. You're gonna have a lot more clarity on that. And like, we've known that coming in right? That was something like our judges asked you about. So I definitely think you guys will have answers for that, or at least answers on how to approach it.
And then you can go out and do that in the weeks, 1st weeks of program. So this is exactly where you need to be.
Okay, awesome. Thanks. Guys, super excited.
User.
Yeah, so my question is like, we, we also really liked.
How the.
Much sincere and digit is, you know, giving a lot of structure to things that we've.
Been used to, just, you know, throwing in on the fly.
So like. That was great. However, us being solely B. 2 V. Company.
We found it a bit.
In terms of, you know, like, because everything was B to C focus. And the examples were also B to C focus. We had to translate all of that.
Into the B 3 segment, and actually doing and conducting those interviews, felt a bit off.
Just solely based on the fact that you know.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
In those interviews we're supposed to focus on how that person is feeling or how that decision is commencing. I really like that. You're smiling. Right now, I think you have a great answer. Yeah, cool. So you know, I'm really curious about to be to be part of that.
And as a feedback doing it as A B Twob business felt a bit weird. Let's say, like we've tried to find materials on how B. 2 B version of that should is supposed to be working.
And we couldn't find that a lot. So yeah.
No, that's really fair, and and, to be honest, I think our application process should do a better job of.
Offerings, specific advice for B to B+B to C, so that's helpful you to reinforce. I will say.
This workshop that we give every single program that is always one of the things that comes up.
And I love it because we're prepared. You know, we obviously have forks for B, Twob and B to C and tips that we have in our materials that we present now. But you're reminding me that our application process might.
Strike fear in the hearts of the b 2 b companies in the sense of how do I apply this meaningfully in my context? So I really appreciate you calling that out.
That's really.
Morgan.
Oh, yeah. Go ahead. Leah. Sorry.
I was. Gonna say, we, we even every program. We've added more and more examples into our workshops of alumni B Twob companies who did it well to try and like kind of switch that guilt.
Or sorry that worry of the b 2 b Company.
Morgan.
I think you're muted.
Hmm.
Sorry my question is on the following up on the B to be a lot of these deals I'm trying to close is a lot of back and forth. It's not like one conversation, it's quite a few, and really just.
Making them shorter like closing the deal like some of them have to be drawn out. So I would love to get feedback on, you know, obviously getting all the information to the customers we can, but just kind of keeping it concise as much as as we can. So it's not just kind of waiting to see, but.
Yeah. Getting the the deal done as quickly as possible.
Right. And and you know what's interesting, Morgan is. What I will continue to call out is the distinction that's super important between the discovery process, and then the sales process.
Which are 2 distinct activities that many founders in my experience tend to.
Unintentionally, conflate.
Okay.
So we'll talk about that and then work with you to expedite the sales process. The more you learn about what it actually takes to get them to. Yes, the fewer, you know. Revs, it'll take hopefully to get to that. Conclusion.
Great. Thank you.
But I'm I'm with you. 100%. Yeah.
Annie.
Yes, so I have kind of follow up to that. A very specific question. So.
We? I had a meeting with Carter yesterday, and they are interested in our product, which is super awesome.
But it's 1 of those things where I'm like, I need to close this deal. So I think very specifically, I want to work with y'all to help me close that deal. And then the other thing is that I you know we are operating in different verticals now, and I really appreciate, you know, doing the lean canvas for each vertical.
I think something and I are talking about is.
Now that we've got our Dei product done, it's got a product market. We've got customers like Carta. What's kind of our next.
Vertical to focus on. And do we go with.
Kind of maybe the easier one which might be the social media one. Or do we go with.
The one that might be.
Hmm.
A little bit bigger customers, more difficult customers, but might be like the bigger fish. So yeah, so those are kind of the 2 things I'd love to focus on.
Nick.
Excellent strategic challenges that you're facing. I would love to work with you through those. So let's do it. I wrote those down.
Monica.
Yeah. So I'm just piling on this point.
Yeah, let's do it. I love this. By the way, keep it coming.
More of the same. But yeah, I mean, there's a distinction also between B. Twob and enterprise. B, twob, like, you know, closing a deal with a smaller business.
Is different from closing a deal with a 50,000 employee global business which can take a year right.
Or 2 years depending on their procurement process. So.
You know it'd be nice to touch on that as well, and then number 2.
Is a specific challenge that we have, and that we have a a platform that is pretty sprawling, and does a lot of different things. And they're all important.
The different customers.
Are excited about different.
Features. Right? So what we end up doing is just like.
Mentioning all of them, or all the benefits. And you know we find it hard to really like.
Understand which features which customers would be excited about. It's kind of random, you know, because the way they work is different. So yeah, just wanted to put that out there.
So. Yeah, no, it's interesting. You just said Monica. You said it's kind of random.
My! My goal here is in the time that we'll spend together. That notion of random will go away.
And we will get closer and closer to causality.
Because.
It's it's a safe assumption on my end, usually with the customer journey to assume that nothing is random.
But you know you never know, so we'll we'll find out together.
Great.
Telitha.
Hi, so I think issue that we face is that people are a bit too polite, so they feel like bad to say no to us, and then they give us like superficial reasons, like they'll just be a myriad of different reasons why not to work with us. And I think what we wanna figure out is, how do we go beyond that.
Fluff.
And get to something where we can get actionable insights to improve our product or.
Or whatever it is.
Yeah, I think that's something that we struggle with. A lot of people are too kind. And then, like.
Okay, what do we take away from this? How do we? What's the next step? Yeah.
Yeah couple of quick, like on the on the like off the dome, like instincts. There one is.
We want to learn what they're saying. Yes, to as opposed to you.
And the people who originally say yes to you and say no, might give you even more insight than the ones that don't say yes at all.
So there's a few things there that we can also dig into. But I love that you have that curiosity and.
It's always an awkward journey to deal like we're all running businesses, and we're in the business of being rejected most of the time.
Both from investors and from potential customers. So you all are dealing with a really hard line of work.
That you're all gluttens for it, though, because we're here, and you're in tech stars now. But we'll do that together, too.
Excellent.
Okay? Well, I have one other follow up question for you all before I get into my slides.
Was there anything that did not resonate with you? Was there anything that you felt like you had like struggled with? Or maybe some instinctual.
Either disagreement with, or something where you were like skeptical. You're like, I'm not sure this makes sense or.
I'm not quite convinced that's a sound way to approach it.
It's it's common. So I just thought I'd welcome that because I tend to encourage it. And I question these same things myself when I was 1st getting into this.
Now, everyone's convinced, and they're all in.
Like, Yeah, we're here. This is, we wouldn't be here if we didn't agree.
Alright. Let's go. Agent. Lunar. Yeah.
I think you all are muted.
Yeah, okay, I.
Oh, you did you say?
No, no, please.
I'll go ahead. Go ahead! I have my hand. Someone else.
No no go ahead, please.
Okay, yeah. I think there was some.
Like skepticism when you're listening through.
Matches interview. And it's like.
Oh, what, what like milk did you buy? What percentage was the milk like? I just.
I understand the goal of trying to recreate the mindset or the scenario that they're in when they made this purchasing decision. But I just.
I think. Yeah, if I'm the 1st one to say I'm not fully bought in on how exactly useful that is to.
Kind of determine when that purchasing decision was made. And I know that might that.
Yeah, what do you think that was about? Why did he ask? Like the the like? If you remember the milk percentage, what do you think like.
What's the deal there.
Yeah. So it was about, yeah. The guy went to Costco.
He didn't have a plan to buy a mattress.
And then he was doing his regular weekly shopping for the kids, and he attended something about oh, I bought some groceries, and I was like.
Oh, well, what was it?
Oh, milk!
How much did you buy?
What percentage of the most you buy, and you know it just went down this rabbit hole of like.
Questions. And I just think.
For at least my user is like even trying to recreate that I don't know.
How much of that I would wanna do without turning my.
Yeah.
A potential users away from this interview, because, you know, these interviews are hard to get come by, especially when you're really in early in ideation, not ideation, but product, stage.
If I'm asking. You know, when my students, for example.
Oh, what time was it when you were on your laptop searching for our product?
What did you search for? And you know I go down.
A whole of like.
What Youtube videos, you're watching. I just, I'm just a little skeptical. I think that's that was a good challenge.
You're you're skeptical because it feels like information that you shouldn't be asking for.
Yeah, like, or just.
To what extent do I try to recreate.
The like.
That environment when that person decision was actually useful to.
For us.
Well, I want to pose this question to the room actually, before I offer, because obviously I have a thought on that.
What do people think, Dave? You look like you want to jump? Jump in here. Yeah.
Oh, yeah, I think it. I think it was. I think it was brilliant. I thought it was brilliant, because what cause you saw that the more the guy started talking about all this weird stuff.
That was unrelated. The more he remembered about buying the mattress.
There you go!
So it came in like, Oh, I just went to go buy a mattress, and then it was like, Wait, hold on! I've been sleeping on this crappy mattress for like a year, and like I've been traveling, and my wife had been suffering with it, and I even thought, you know, like it was crazy. So I thought that these small details really kicked in. Sorry, I'm yeah. I feel like I'm yelling. I feel like.
No, you're just excited. We like it. I like this energy.
I love the enthusiasm.
Yeah, they kicked in all the all the synapses started firing. And and I think I can't wait to use that tech technique, although I think I think I understand what his point is, which is in A, b 2 b, and so I've done a lot of this for b 2 b, because I've been a b 2 b marketer, most of my career and and for b 2 b, you, you might argue, you might think that the decisions less emotional.
But what I, what I actually I wrote an article about this where I actually think that A, b 2 b decision is actually more emotional than A B to C decision cause if you go and you pick up a chocolate bar at a grocery store, you buy it. You don't like the chocolate bar. What have you wasted? 4 95.
But if you pick the wrong database, you lose your job.
So so my perspective is that the emotion? It's actually more emotional. And so for you to understand to what those emotional triggers are, am I gonna lose my job? Am I gonna get my next promotion, you know? And is my boss gonna like me? Those kind of things, I think, really pay, really play a huge role in this decision, making process.
Dave, I love.
Dave. I think I think we're gonna get along.
Yeah.
You're already getting so much.
But I'll just offer up a quick thing. And then, Lily, I know you wanna speak in Kevin, just to clarify further.
What he's doing there, and not to jump the gun too much, cause I'll get into detail about all of this.
Is, he's trying to get the person who he's interviewing.
To remember.
The the moment.
So it's actually less about what percentage the milk was in and of itself, and more about, can this person get into that activated part of their memory of walking through the store.
And what they were there to do, because that'll help color the environment a little bit more and activate more of the things that might be more fuzzy in their mind until they revisit some of those specific details. So it's an actual interview technique that he learned from
The FBI there's more on Bob. And now he like developed the these techniques and how he's taught. You know, some of us like myself how to do them. But it's literally like actual like.
You know, investigative techniques that are involved with that kind of questioning.
But hopefully, Kevin, you don't have to take my word for it. You'll have to find out as as we go and and learn from the process itself.
Yeah. Yeah. No. Sure.
Does that answer your question for now?
I also I have. I have a crazy statistic, by the way, so when you do, customer interviews like the job to be interviews for B. 2 B. There was a Harvard business School study that said that all you need to do is.
12.
In order to get to 98 accuracy across the rest of your population.
Which is insane.
So thinking about.
That's that's our magic number.
Like 6 sigma, right? Like, it's like 9 to 99%. You just let you 12. That's incredible. So that's a pretty cool Stat. They were always remembered.
Here we are!
Dave is just doing our job. I really appreciate it. So everyone.
Yeah. Keep going.
Yep.
As B Twob. Concerns. They've kind of hinted at that about the kind of emotional pool that actually exists within B twob, but we'll show you real frameworks that kind of like. Put that into a concrete model to understand this weekend.
All I was gonna say for Kevin. That was a very good question, I can tell you. Have a deep comprehension of what was going on in that mattress in your view, to even ask that question. We do a mock interview every time we teach this, and when Neil and I teach this at Northwestern.
One time we did an interview about a girl who bought some air pods. She was pretty convinced that she had bought them with her money from an internship while she was at home over the summer before she came back to school. So she finished the internship. She's at home. She comes back to school with new air pods. While Neil was asking her the questions that.
The invasive questions. As you said, Kevin, what time was it? Where were you sitting like? Were you buying it on your phone on your laptop. She realized she didn't buy them before she got back to school.
She bought them. Once she came back.
And it was like the 1st few weeks, and it was because all her roommates had bought the air pods she was convinced it was, her headphones were broken, and she said it was a functional purchase, but we realized it was actually a lot more social.
So she felt like very left out, because it was when airports had just come out. All our friends had them, so she got convinced to buy them, even if she kind of was already thinking about buying new headphones. That's when she pulled the trigger. That was the purchase moment. So those kind of I wouldn't even call them invasive. I would just call them investigative questions are actually, what's gonna pull the truth out.
Awesome.
Yeah.
No, definitely, I appreciate the insight guys that's that's helpful.
Good! Very good! Excellent! Call out!
You heard you had something.
I mean, I'm I'm just thinking out loud here. But this is something I've learned from this. While we were working on second analysis.
Because we want to analyze like big communities. And one thing that came up constantly across different studies is that what? When you ask someone in a leisure setting, or, you know, in a controlled environment.
On, you know, if you ask them to tell you how they're feeling.
And the answer that they give usually doesn't coincide with what is actually happening. So the self expression of emotion on top is usually.
You have to control for some error over there. And I I think the interview did an okay job at that. What I would like more and hopefully, you know, maybe we can, you know, do interviews that we, we can, you know, test this theory. But if the questions are more indirect, and if you drive conclusions from them, like, if you ask 3 different questions that do to.
Things.
Where.
You know, those questions will hint at a specific scenario, and if you can verify that scenario, I think that's closer to truth.
Then what the person is. Actually, even though you're taking that person.
Like, even though you're rewinding time back in and then putting that person in that position. Even if you ask that person that, given second.
His expression is usually.
It tends to be messy and unreliable when it comes to the analysis.
I'm glad you called that out, and I'll I'll need your help as we go to like. Try to do more of that, because we're trying to go like.
This is this is all.
Our history with this like framework and approach to customer discovery is.
The original context, for this framework was not at the early stage that we were operating in.
It was for later stage businesses.
That ended up with heart working with Harvard, and some people introduced you to.
To then like incorporate understanding from.
Like.
Very, very like robust data sets and access to lots of customers and demand.
So at the early stage startup journey with this framework.
There's a few different kind of considerations, and and that's 1 of them. So just keep that in mind as we go that we're not just.
Imparting this information on you, or actually trying to continue to refine it as we go.
So.
Yeah, I I mean, like even just said it. Like, when you're doing a v 2 sales, for example, like, I think this this point is even more relevant in the B 2 scenario, because, like, you know, that's where I'm.
From. But you know.
A a status. You're you're you're you're asking for money. They're giving you a no, but they're giving you a thousand one reasons why that no, is.
But no. Well, it.
Well, then, those usually something much less fluffier, much more. But it's more real. Even when we're working at a you know role at a big corporate job, like people are usually known to mask their identity, and, you know, take on a different identity. So if you were to ask the person.
Which assumes that identity.
It would.
You would get one answer for why, you would get a no wall deep down. The motion that the real person is feeling is.
Computing a huge part on why, that no is that. Now.
That's great food and one other carrot, I'll add, for those of you that are willing to go down. The journey is.
There's a world where you can get.
So, you know, I think it's good for us.
So good at this that the people that you ask to say yes.
We're already gonna say yes. In the 1st place, because you had done the prep work required to know who to ask.
So that's how well you can understand your customers if you take this process. So I'm looking forward to that with all of you.
So excellent. Alright, I am gonna queue this up.
Let me know, Lilian, am I all good? Is it showing what I want to show.
It's also showing your note on the right hand side.
Okay, got it?
Let's see here.
I think you should.
You can just stop sharing and only share the window.
It's showing like your whole desktop like with your folders and stuff.
Oh, cool. Okay.
Let me see here, let's try again.
Share.
What about this?
Is better.
Perfect.
Okay.
And you can pull.
Back up. We can't see it.
I think I got it.
I'm gonna stop one more time and then reshare it.
Got it right.
By the way, guys, we're our whole team is calling from our office today.
Yeah, we're here.
There we go!
Yeah backgrounds, Chloe, Neil's background. These are your.
Your suites here.
That's the presenter display. Okay? Yeah.
Got it.
Whatever you did the second time was right. Yeah, that's perfect.
Alright, cool. Thank you.
So
Few things. One. My goal here is to explain how jobs to be done can help you with customer discovery. So I heard a lot about sales just now.
Sales.
Comes from a deep understanding of your customer. So while we might be slowing down for a week.
And you all are eager to just figure out how to close more deals and get more people to say Yes.
I promise you, if you trust our process, you'll have a more refined understanding of that discovery part which leads into.
A better process for sales.
And decision making. Overall your business.
And also just compelling you to dig deeper about why people buy. And that's not just B to C, when we think b 2 b. We think entities and businesses saying, Yes.
But at the end of the day, for all of you, it's still a human being at the end of the day that's making that decision.
Right. So you need to understand the humans that are involved in the journey within a business to say yes.
I am not a formal person.
For the most part, so I really have very few formalities that I'm interested in. You can interrupt. You can interject, you can disagree, you can challenge me. I am all about that.
So just know that you're welcome to do that and ask anything.
And then, I guess now getting into it.
One quick question I have for you all is, why do you think it's called jobs?
To be done.
Why not just customer research or customer interviews.
It had to do with.
Your.
Hiring the product for.
What you're using that pro. What job that product is meant to do.
Correct.
Right old terminology for it.
Correct. Yeah. So so a lot of people will go. Oh, this is just like another way of saving what problem you're Sol.
And I go. No, no, no like, think about it.
You are hiring.
A business that has a product or service.
To do a job for you. So what job are you hiring.
That product or service as a very subtle distinction.
But fundamentally important that very few people ask.
As they're running and starting their business.
So.
With that in mind. We've put together some feedback that we've received over the past 5 years.
Do our mentor? Madness!
So when you all go through mentor madness and you're gonna meet some of the best.
Smartest people that we know that we ask to help you.
Succeed.
They give us feedback? Do they give feedback in the moment right afterwards? And and they meet with you. And they, you know, interact with you, but I have a session with each of the mentors where I get their feedback about what it was like to work with you in in your business and what they think of it. So we put together a a few snippets.
From the feedback we've received from our mentors over the years that I thought would be helpful to share with all of you. Now.
Because this is just like straight from them. And it's something that was relatively consistent.
And you know, we, we think is important to call out.
Use storytelling of current customers, experiences to help sell the product.
Don't chase your customers. Understand your customers.
Focus less on sales until you know your customers.
Stop building out technology focus on the business.
Stop thinking of your company as a technology and start thinking about it as a problem. You're solving.
You're too obsessed with product.
Hit the brakes on the tech dev work on the business and storytelling immediately before continuing to work on the tech.
Sharpen the story. They didn't talk about the customer product in their intro. That's a problem.
So my point.
Is that this has helped many of our past founders succeed, because even after we teach you all of this for the next couple of weeks.
You're gonna go into our program.
You're gonna meet with all these other people, with investors, and some of you are still going to struggle to speak.
From the perspective of the customer as you talk about, and introduce your business.
So it will be inevitable feedback that some of you will face. But our job here is to do as much work as we can to prepare you for that.
And to give you even more awareness and ammo.
To circumvent it.
So I have a few examples of companies that I have worked directly with amongst our tech programs that I'm particularly proud of, and the insights that they gained.
During the program leading into successful and sustainable businesses. This is real crafter.
They've worked with some of the like. Most.
Prominent composers and and producers of of content on like Netflix and Amazon, and.
Things like that. And they had to do a lot of work to understand who exactly they were selling to. And I remember coming into program.
They were at like 3 or 4 Kmr, they're more of a bootstrap business, so they're not venture back in any phenomenal way. They're a small team.
But I think they're about to hit 40.
And they've done that very slowly, in a very iterative way, and I'm really excited to see they're very slow and smooth trajectory.
But they have very low expenses, too. So that's a fun business that we helped out with jobs to be done.
Havoc. So this one's on the b 2 b side and obviously they're a bit more for both, and straightforward. But Brian, I think I think he closed his.
7 million round few years ago.
And seems to be gearing up for the next wave potentially a series a but on the the cyber security front he was one of our standouts on the b 2 b side with the jobs to be done. Framework.
Going back to B to C. We have Jake from zest who you are gonna get to know very well. He's 1 of our favorite founders to have come back and speak to our classes. He was actually a former student of mine at Northwestern graduated.
Quit his job, and then started a business that I then rejected. I think twice to get into techs ours and ultimately accept it. So we'll tell you that whole story one day. But I believe just closed a 2.5 million dollar round.
Made it to final stages with firms like Sequoia out here in the valley. Jason Calicanus is on his cap table twice.
He's done quite a good job with the business that I was not excited about at all. Because you teach a college class like me. Every business at a college student wants to start is related to like food.
Or sleep.
Or you know all the things that they have life experiences with which isn't much so that was a surprise to me that he managed to get this far with business that I'm actually now pretty excited about and then there's boom filter. So that's going back to the b 2 b side but.
I'm really, really proud of them. They close the 7 million. Last year. I shared the stage with the CEO Andrew earlier this year in front of a bunch of tech stars lps.
But.
He was he gave credit to. I think jobs to be done in particular is something that helped him out disproportionately during our program.
And then, last, but not least, our big, our big fish, Nutris.
So nutrisens, probably, at least amongst the 100 and.
50 companies that I've invested in the the largest or most successful on paper.
For now.
They're valued at over a hundred 1 million dollars they're making, I think.
I don't know 3 or 4 million dollars in revenue a month right now.
They've got over 100 employees. They're doing quite well, and they provide software augmented with the continuous monitor to help people with their diet and health.
So really excited about these companies, and you'll meet most of these founders and many others as the program goes on. But I thought I'd introduce you to them, because they've all trusted.
The this process at this stage.
And it's back when they, you know, had little to nothing with their businesses, and they're now doing all quite well.
Cool.
Alright, so I'll keep chugging along. And and I guess my last point here is that many of our past companies would have benefited from running this if they had taken it more seriously. So whenever I have to take the really.
Sad call of a company shutting down or winding down, or needing to do a massive pivot, or, you know, having to let people go to save money. And we reflect on what we've learned and what we think we could have done differently or better. And a lot of the times.
I would say more times than any other example I can think of.
It's typically related to something on the front of the demand side. Understanding.
Of who they were selling to, and what they were selling.
And what effort they put into place to actually get to those people in the right way.
It's almost always related to something on those end. It's less about some sort of.
Silly mistake that gets made, or, you know, one strategic misstep or feature that the product didn't have.
It's it's usually less on the supply side and more on the demand side that a lot of the challenges come to come to bear with early stage businesses.
So here's a screenshot of a to do list that you will have access to in permanent, and I share this upfront before I get into the overview of this framework because I want you all to know you don't have to memorize what you're about to hear.
You don't even need to.
Take copious notes you're welcome to, of course, if that helps you. But I just want you to know that everything that I'm gonna talk about.
Is.
Very like, strongly laid out in detail, step by step, for what exactly I would recommend you do to do this right.
So whether or not you're even available for the next 2 weeks. To take this fully.
You will have.
Lifetime access to my exact.
Prescription for how to go about doing this in a way that I I think would be best, and that I learned from the people who taught this framework to me.
Cool.
So.
Defining the problem.
So a lot of the times when you all meet with other founders, or you're gonna.
You know you're talking to each other. You all presented your businesses yesterday.
I asked people, you know. Oh, what do you do with your business? And they begin to tell me. Oh, well, we offer this, or we do that, and.
You know, it's all about whatever your solution is.
And I end up having to cut founders off or people off when I talk to them, and I go wait a sec. Tell me a story.
That simplifies the problem that you're solving. And what happens when your solution makes life better for them?
And when I ask people that question to tell a story it slows things down a good amount, because now, all of a sudden, you're forced to.
Humanize and personalize what's going on rather than just talking.
Typically at a technical level about what it is functionally that your business does.
So I think whether it's.
Talking to investors, whether you're trying to get new customers or you're trying to figure out what product development feature you should like focus on next.
Being able to articulate and.
Truly understand the customer's progress.
Is the most important thing that you could be investing your energy into.
So I treat us to be done as my like product development, secret weapon.
Because, as Kevin already said, people don't buy products or services, they hire them to help them make progress in their life.
So the original tried and true example here is, people don't want to buy a quarter inch drill. What do they want?
Feel free to unmute.
I don't want a quarter, but I want.
Assemble my Ikea cupboard.
I yes, so let's go from there. So usually it's quarter. I don't want to drill, but I want a whole. Why do they want the whole. They want a whole, because they have something to.
A symbol, or put together, or hang on a wall.
And then I have that thing to like for me. I hang things on walls like this like motivational posters.
I have some of these for you all in this office. Ready to go up.
But because I wanna motivate myself to get things done, or I wanna use that Ikea Assembly to, you know, put books on to read, to draw inspiration from, to serve as a zoom background.
And then from all of that well.
What's my motivation of wanting to have.
A motivational poster or something inspiring on the wall. It's to be more productive to get things done.
And then the list goes on and on, so I don't know if you all have ever heard of this framework called the 5 Wise.
But they say, don't ask why, just one time you have to ask at least 5 to get closer to the truth of what somebody really wants.
It gets to the point where it gets a little too deep, so you have to call it some point. So we went from a drill all the way to. I'm trying to be productive.
That reform hanging things on the wall. Therefore I need to drill, and therefore I need a hole.
But at some point you call it, and you have to know kind of where that existential moment would.
You know, cross the line so.
The way I want you all to think about it is kind of like there's this person.
And whether they're in a business trying to sign off on behalf of the business or a direct consumer. Still, at the end of the day. There's a person trying to get someone.
So how do we get them there?
So there's a struggling moment that they're going through this current circumstance. They're in.
And there's the progress and the idea of a new way that they're gonna try to attain.
And that's all we're here to help you all for, and figure out.
So jobs to be done, in my view, is.
All about understanding, of.
The Y underneath the choices that they're making.
And that causality.
And also, you know, the causal mechanisms might be more than one. But we're looking for the majority.
Influencer. So the Pareto principle, the 80 20% of the effort produces 80% of the yield.
So that that whole notion of what is the most sensitive aspect of the causal inputs for someone to make a decision.
And then, lastly, on a point of humility for us.
When you think about that customer and where they want to go.
We are merely the bridge to getting them there.
I think a lot of the time we think of our businesses as.
The most important thing, because it is the most important thing to us.
But the customer just treats us as a pathway to get to what they want.
They're not necessarily betting at all on on who we are, what we're about, and if a better us comes along, they're happy to switch.
So we have to keep that in mind throughout the entire journey.
Also.
There's what I perceive most people to address which are typically symptoms and speaking on problems.
But we're here to also dig into the root causes.
You know what are the things that are actually underlying the behaviors that are more obvious to us? And how do we get down to those to better understand.
How to help our customers succeed.
So with all this in mind, I have a quick fun side track journey to share.
With you all.
Has anyone seen this video with Professor Clay Christensen.
Yes.
Vdi.
Have you all seen it?
Let's see.
Is, this is.
It was part of our homework actually.
Okay, got it. Okay, good. So let's talk about it. Then, if you've seen it, that's great.
But you guys are just awesome. Cause it wasn't part of the homework. It was like Linkedin, the optional optional resources. That's why you're all here. I'm very.
Hear that!
Built next.
They did. This is great. So has anyone here not seen this video?
I did, I saw a couple of mouths of not seeing it.
Okay, all right. So if you all don't mind, it's 4min long.
Is it okay? If we watch it.
Is that okay?
Yeah, it's awesome.
Okay. Cool. Cool.
Let's do that.
I'm gonna switch it up.
4min, and then we will jam, share, sound.
Cool. Let me know if this comes through properly.
Good.
Hi! My name's Clay Christensen. I'm a professor at the Harvard Business School.
I'm proud with me. A set of puzzles all related to innovation.
We decided that the way we teach marketing is at the.
Of what makes motivation difficult to achieve.
The most helpful way. We've thought of it so far.
Is that we actually hire products to do things for us.
And understanding what job we have to do in our lives for which we would hire a product.
Is really the key to cracking this problem.
Of motivating.
Customers to buy what we're offering.
So I wanted just to tell you a story about a project we did for one of the big fast food restaurants.
They were trying to goose up the sails of their milkshakes.
They had just studied this problem up the Gazoo. They brought in customers who fit the profile of the quintessential milkshake consumer.
They give them samples, and ask, Could you tell us how we can improve our milkshakes? So you'd buy more of them.
Do you want a chocolatey, or cheap, or chunky, or chewy, or.
Make it very clear feedback. They would then improve the milkshake on those dimensions, and it had no impact on sales or profits whatsoever.
Okay, yeah. You might want to guess what business.
Place, talking about.
Mcdonald's.
It's Mcdonald's. It is Mcdonald's. That is the so he's from Harvard Business School. They're dealing with the.
The largest and most successful fast food restaurant.
Company of all time.
He's very politely alluding to them in a vague way, but he's being pretty obvious and clear.
Now the process he just described that they were going through to get feedback about their milkshakes, I think, should sound familiar to many of you about.
How you all, or some of you, have probably tried to get feedback from your customers or potential customers.
Right you. You present them with options, you ask them for feedback. Ask them which ones they like, and then they tell you, and then you do those things and.
You're like, why am I not selling more.
Why aren't they paying me more.
So, although we're talking about milkshakes, I hope you can see the parallels to any of your businesses, because it's gonna continue.
So one of our colleagues went in with a different question on his mind.
I wonder what job arises in people's lives that cause them to come to this restaurant to hire a milkshake.
So we stood in a restaurant for 18h one day and just took very careful data.
What time did they buy these milkshakes? What were they wearing? Were they alone? Did they buy other food with it? Did they eat it in the restaurant, or drive off with it.
It turned out that nearly half of the milkshakes were sold before 8 o'clock in the morning.
This is my favorite part to pause that so, for those of you who have not seen this video.
What do you think is happening.
At Mcdonald's for people to buy milkshakes before 8 o'clock in the morning.
Any guesses.
Because that's pretty weird.
Breakfast.
Somebody said breakfast.
Yeah.
Okay. Milkshake for breakfast.
Karim, did you wanna say I saw you on mute.
Are you?
I was. I was thinking about the same as well. I mean, I've had ice cream for breakfast before.
Alright!
The start of.
Are they playing for their kids?
What Nick.
Are they bang for their kids on the way to school?
Hmm.
Hmm, interesting.
Something to eat during their brunch or something during the office hours.
So that they could get it earlier.
During.
Like. They buy it early to work to eat at the office.
Got it.
Think like a snack in between.
Morning time they can have during their office.
It's so interesting to deal with professional adults, because sometimes when we ask our college students this, they're like, Oh, obviously, they were partying.
Yeah.
They were out late. Yeah, this is a late night. Milkshake. Any other.
Quick hunches, ideas.
Or hit, play.
Merry day.
Like Frappuccinos, or something.
Okay. So I mean, obviously, I don't know if you can tell by the dated Imax in the in the video here. But this is a long time ago.
This is recorded. So Mcdonald's is clearly changed. A lot of what it does and what it offers. Since.
You know you're about to learn a little bit more about why, but I'll just say that at the time.
Finding out, by looking at the data that half of their milkshakes were being sold before 8 o'clock in the morning was.
Like jaw, dropping.
It was like what is even happening here, and there is a possibility that some of you.
With the right set of, you know, research steps and questions. You might learn really surprising things about how some of your potential customers.
Are, gonna use your products.
So let's find out.
The people who bought them were always alone. It was the only thing they bought, and they all got in the car and drove off with it.
So to figure out what job they were trying to hire it to do. We came back the next day and stood outside the restaurant, so we could confront these folks as they left milkshake in hand.
And in language that they could understand, we.
Excuse me, please, but I've got to sort this puzzle out.
What job were you trying to do for yourself that caused you to come here and hire that milkshake.
Indeed struggle to answer, so we then helped them by asking other questions like.
Think about the last time you were in the same situation.
Needing to get the same job done. But you didn't come here to hire a milkshake. What did you hire.
And then, as we put all of their answers together, it became clear that they all had the same job to do in the morning.
And that is, they have a long and boring drive to work.
And they just needed something to do while they drove to keep the commute had to be on the wheel.
But somebody given him another hand, and there wasn't anything in it.
And they just needed something to do while they drove.
They weren't hungry yet, but they knew hungry by 10 o'clock, so they also wanted something that would just pull down there and stay for their morning. Good question, what do we hire when they do this job? You know I've never framed the question that way before, but.
Last Friday I heard a banana to do the job.
Take my word for it, never hire bananas.
They're gone in 3min. You're hungry by 7, 30.
If you promise not to tell my wife. I probably hire donuts twice a week, but.
They don't do it well, either. They're gone fast. They crumb all over my clothes. They get my fingers.
Sometimes I hire bagels, but, as you know, they're so dry and tasteless.
And I have to steer the car with my knees while I'm putting jam on them. And then if the phone rings, we've got a crisis.
I remember I hired a snickers bar once, but I felt so guilty I've never hired snickers again.
Let me tell you, when I come here and hire this milkshake. It is so viscous.
That it easily takes me 20min to suck it up. That thin little straw.
Who cares what the ingredients are? I don't.
All I know is, I'm full all morning, and it fits right here in my cup, holder. Well, it turns out that the milkshake does the job better than any of the competitors.
Which in the customer's minds are not Burger King Milkshakes, but its bananas, donuts, snickers, bars, coffee, and so on.
But I hope you can see how, if you understand the job.
How to improve the product becomes just obvious.
Okay, so let's do a quick debrief on that. Thanks for humoring us again for those who took the time to watch it already.
But I'd love to discuss this a little bit further, and just anything to sit out to you.
That was all. Intuitive.
And and maybe what you learned, and then I have a quick exercise for us to go through about that.
The initial reactions or feedback.
Yeah. Agent. Lunar.
Oh, I'm smiling. I mean, this is one of my favorite interviews. I've read the book about it, you know this. It gets me really excited. So I'm glad that you shared it. But I think for me the biggest standout moment, and it gets me every time is when he mentions that the biggest like the competitor. It wasn't Burger King, or I can't remember the other ones that he mentioned now, but it wasn't fast food, restaurants, etc.
The donut or the snickers bar, and that's the bit.
I have. We have to remind ourselves all the time. It's not always.
The competitors that come to your mind. In your customers, mind, and I think that's just so valuable.
Just yeah, initial reaction.
Yeah, I I couldn't agree more. It's it's all about the the true competitive set, not just the direct competitive set.
And when I meet most founders, and the reason most of them don't get investment from me is because I hear so many of them say, well, we don't have any competition, or our competitors are these companies that are doing the exact same thing as us? But we're better. And I'm like, yeah. But who else.
Because most of the people you want to serve are already doing something, and it's none of you.
So tell me what they're doing, and very few people do that well, or understand that. Well.
Morgan.
For me, it was kind of the realization like cause I never. I mean, I love this video. I never would have guessed.
That people were using it. I find people put some comments in the chat. I find it kind.
Gross to drink a milkshake at college for me was a long time ago, so it wouldn't have come to mind. So, remembering to be like.
Humble for what your customer wants. So even if it's the top of my mind, I think this is what people will love like to remember like that might not be true. And to to really get the feedback from the customers. Make sure you're building a product they will want. And maybe you know.
Take yourself down a peg about what you think will be the ultimate.
Well, well, let me ask you this, Morgan, have you ever had cereal for breakfast?
Yes, but yeah, not not too.
Have you had yogurt.
Yes.
Okay. So now we're trending in the direction of would before Mcdonald's.
Had the things that we now know that they offer.
Or smoothie.
They didn't have these same things. So when you don't.
Yeah.
Right or smoothie. Right? So so there's these things that there's the job of what needs to be done. And then, because.
Mcdonald's has a drive-through.
Right. I can go there to get an adjacent like.
Yeah, yeah.
Replacement for the thing that I probably would want instead, which might make me feel less guilty. Right milkshake sounds a terrible thing to have for breakfast, but when you go to yogurt, or it's a smoothie all of a sudden. It doesn't sound so crazy right.
So we're actually jumping the gun to my exercise. This is perfect.
What I wanted you all to do is put yourself in one of 2 camps.
You're at Mcdonald's on the executive team, and you're.
On the marketing team.
Or you're on the product team.
And I want you all to tell me as an executive on the marketing or product team, what you would do differently with these new insights that we have with this Harvard Research team that we employ to help us understand why our customers are buying milkshakes before 8 o'clock in the morning.
So any marketers or product people in the room want to tell me what you do as an executive at Mcdonald's.
Now that you know what's going on.
I mean, like, what comes to mind is, I'm a marketer, or, you know, product, person.
But does that data dude.
What comes to mind is, I would try to collect.
The average distance of.
The drive that these people are making.
And then somehow try to figure out the average or median.
Milk intake per kilometers and then try optimizing my portions around that I guess.
Okay.
Help me understand this more. I wanna make sure, because I I've never heard anyone say what you're saying right now. So I'm having a great time. This is like new content for me. So yeah, I'm like, I, I want marketers. And for product people, you're like, I'm the dude. What's the distance in the media and the consumption. I'm like, all right. Bro, let's go so tell me what you're trying to solve, for by calculating that.
Well, the problem is, if you're buying a milkshake, and if it's and if it's if you're hiring the milkshake, solve the problem of keeping you occupied while you're driving to work.
That means that if that shake is.
Too early gone down then. That's a bad thing, because you know the human mind things, and you'll be like, oh, I had the milkshake before, and now I don't have that.
Alright!
Or the option B is, if that if the if you can't consume the milkshake.
Since it's a multi team to have a milk check for breakfast, and you'll be judged by, you know.
Yes.
Workers or the office people that you're in. You don't want to walk into an office at 8 o'clock with a milk shake in your hand.
So it's like, you know. I would want it to be gone.
How do I finish this before I'm there? Yeah.
Exactly. Exactly. Yeah.
Umhm.
Okay.
Thanks.
So so my question for you is, I'm putting you on the product team. Mr. Data. So what do you change about the product, to optimize for that.
Well, I recall.
Reading something else about the same thing.
On a different resource. I'm a bit influenced by that, but I think they've experimented with the straw.
And how that is influencing the intake. But that's not my original idea.
Correct.
Yeah, maybe.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, they they did. They did do that like. What you're saying is exactly what they did. They changed the straw, they made it larger, and then they also changed the viscosity of.
The drink itself.
Yeah, I I've read this before.
Yeah, yeah.
Right so they could adjust how quickly it's consumed. That's right. You got it. That's a good product changes to make.
Dave, I'll kick it to you.
Yeah, as a, as a marketer, I I rebranded as a breakfast.
And then I charge extra for it.
Very good.
Kevin.
Yeah, I'd start expanding into.
Different little breakfast items that serve that same.
Purpose as what the milkshake is being used for. It's a little like.
Pancake bites I don't know. Cut the.
Could the sausage me muffin in half, make into a wrap? I don't know like anything.
That people were looking to do with the milkshake they can now do with other menu items at Mcdonald's.
That's right. That's right. You're thinking precisely around the job. That's good.
I think because the problem statement revolves around the commute.
So what I'll have to do is all the packaging to reduce condensation. Perhaps.
You're at.
That would be something that makes it a little bit more price, more sales. Because okay, the Mcdonald's milkshake is packaged in the way that it makes less of a mess in the car.
So I perhaps look to optimize for that.
That's 1 and then the other one, because, like just hearing feedback from people that have been.
Opposition to milkshakes of breakfast. Perhaps, like the breakfast milkshake, makes a lot of sense like, just different from the regular one.
And then become something that we branch off into.
Those would be the 2 things that come to mind.
Yes.
Content and the nutrition facts.
It's similar.
Not too different.
Alright, Cesar!
Yeah, I guess one of the reasons big shakes are preferred is also that they are called.
As opposed to hot, which is a which may be incumbent to have while driving so.
And probably after a while people will get bored from.
Having milkshakes every morning, so.
I would have more varieties in cold products, like.
Drinkable or eat all but yeah.
Great.
Alright!
Kind of am I saying your name correctly?
It's true.
Choru.
Yeah.
And so I would probably like associate with the breakfast items as.
Andrew.
Idea, but.
I would like make them.
Comparable.
Like.
With a marketing like.
Here's a bacon, egg calories, and the nutrition counts, and here is our mix.
Nutritious properties. So PI would just like to make people feel less guilty to have a milk check instead of having a breakfast.
Got it. So addressing the the guilt factor, then for those. So it's it basically to bring in potentially additional consumers.
Yeah, like, I was promoted a bit more like a healthier option rather than having a breakfast like cooking all those things, and.
Like having.
Just like a condensed version.
Of bacon and eggs, or.
Something else.
Maybe like.
Play with the.
Taste a bit like to, so they can.
Maybe have.
Like a serial taste. They all love, or something else.
Great.
Let's keep going, Annie.
I think you are muted sorry.
Sorry. I'm curious if Mcdonald's did this because of this study. But I know Mcdonald's now offers like competitive with Starbucks and those sorts of things. So I think.
I would be, you know, I'd be interested to see if that was a direct response to this type of study.
Right.
Well, it. It kind of opened the floodgates to a lot of changes, right? So I I can't give all this one story credit for everything that they've done.
But it was in the early stages of a deeper level of understanding of what actual consumption is is caused by.
Right, and that can lead to an organizational kind of paradigm shift, if you will, as far as how people think about understanding what their customers want.
Interesting. Thank you.
Alright, agent, lunar team.
Yeah, I'm just thinking through the lens of a market something.
That Mcdonald's may not have thought about prior to these findings was.
Advertising where their customers are, and one of the other insights is that their customers are actually commuters. So putting ads where the customer is so.
Yes.
Billboards on the side of the road which we see now, but perhaps they forgot to put.
One didn't think to put.
A milkshake at 7 or 8 am.
So that could be a.
Yes.
Take away!
And acknowledge their commute, meet them where they are, acknowledge how bored they might be.
And maybe target those ads for those peak traffic.
Areas where you're slogging through and rush hour. And you're like, what am I gonna do? So you you there's a lot of detail and thought that can go into where to place these things. Once you have a better understanding of what they're going through right.
Yeah.
For sure.
So I love this example everyone, because.
I think most of us can relate to at least one or some of the products mentioned.
You know.
Bananas, donuts.
Candy bars, milkshakes, Breakfast Mcdonald's.
These are all household, familiar things. We all eat food at some point in our lives.
Hopefully daily, most of us, but.
That being said, I hope you're seeing a hint of a parallel.
Whether it's software, whether it's something highly technical, whether it's.
You know, some deep tech, you know business that you're you're building. There's still a connection here to the theme of.
What someone's hiring it to do may not be always obvious or directly related to what you're assuming.
And that is the lesson that I want to keep going down the road with. But also, I think in just 15min.
We did essentially what I'm hoping to teach you all in over the next couple of weeks.
Which is, we got an understanding. We talked, they talked, play, talk to these customers, figured out what job they were actually hiring it to do, and based on that, we put ourselves into the shoes of both.
Marketing and sales and product development. And we asked ourselves, what can we change? Given what we now know about what our customers actually want.
That is what I want you all to do. That is what we're gonna help you all do in perpetuity. And, by the way, you don't do it once.
You do it throughout the lifecycle of your business.
Because as you grow and as you scale, and as you acquire more customers.
The needs will shift, they'll change. They'll evolve and expand.
So you're gonna have to integrate these types of into the DNA and fabric of your business, to continue to innovate and be successful and competitive, as more people realize that your business is doing well, and they want a piece of your pie.
So just keep all of this in mind as we go, but I hope that was a useful kind of exercise for us to initially go through here.
All right.
Any last questions before we move on to the rest of my content. Here.
Alright so clay, you may know from something else.
He wrote a book in the.
Leave late 80 s.
Called the innovators. Dilemma.
So some of you may have read this if you either went to business school, or you're like one of those cool business nerds like myself.
It's a phenomenal resource to understand the origin of innovation. Clay was actually the academic who is credited with and coined the term disrupt.
So I know when we say disrupt, especially in Silicon Valley. It's like almost like a cliche.
But in this book the innovators dilemma.
He actually coined the term disruption in the context of small upstart businesses, disrupting larger and more entrenched.
Corporations with technology and business, and in a way that actually gives credit. And you know, meaning to the term, it's not just.
Use in a superfluous way. So when I use the notion of disrupt, I'm not really.
Against using cliche, or more commonly used terms or phrases, if they have meaning. And this one means a lot to me, because the disruptive businesses are the ones that tend to be the best investments and the most valuable.
So I want you all to be comfortable, thinking of.
Being disruptive within your, you know, respective industries and markets, because if you do, you're more likely to succeed.
But there's another book he came out with. Believe this was over the past. Let's see, it's 24.
When was it Liliana? Like? Maybe like 20.
Yeah.
16 or 17 when he came out with this book, like I I at the point he wrote this book, I knew him.
And and had had interacted with him and a few others in this world. So
The bob, the person who I'm also gonna introduce you to. Who was the person who conducted the mattress interview. He's also mentioned in this book. But it's basically the follow up from the innovators dilemma to talk more about jobs to be done, and the notion of competing against luck.
By actually developing an understanding of your of your customers.
So
Couple resources that I know you all are familiar with, but I want to revisit, because these are the most important ones. For the next couple of weeks, as well for us.
Before the program officially starts.
One is this timeline.
So.
This is what I have pulled up in front of me whenever I am conducting a customer.
I treat it kind of like a game. I have a template that's blank. So meaning. I know these fields, but there's space for me to fill in notes and details in between them.
But the notion here is that as you're having your conversation to get to know your you know customer.
Or the person you're interviewing.
There's a pattern that tends to fall into place, and it's not precisely.
This number of of of spaces there could be more or less depending on who you're talking to. But for the most part there's a phase that people go through of.
Passively thinking about making change.
There's something that activates them into a phase of. Now I want to make a change. There's a moment where a decision gets made and a change.
Happens. And then there's the consumption post change. Meaning, how is it going? Is it working, is it not? And do I change again.
Or am I happy?
So this is a loop.
This is a time. Loop.
And this is relevant both for B, 2 B+B to C.
I promise.
And this is relevant both at B, 2 B, with the smaller medium sized business, or at the Enterprise level.
Because there's just multiple forces, hierarchies, and people involved in those in those journeys.
But this timeline has been tried and true, for I think a couple decades now, as far as this framework is concerned.
Secondly.
After the interview is conducted. There are now the forces of progress.
That we have to evaluate and analyze. So during the interview itself, we're mapping the timeline and make sure we have it down.
Host interview. We're then asking ourselves.
Okay. What were the forces?
That were identified in this conversation that drove them to either make a decision or.
You know, kept them from moving forward towards a new behavior.
So.
The way this kind of goes is, I go? Okay? Well, what were the pushes? What were the things that were driving somebody to make something better.
And what was drawing them to it. Instead of that. So a push is something like.
I'm driving my car, and I get a flat tire.
My push is.
Well, I I need to get my.
My wheel fixed so that can keep driving my car.
Can anyone think in my car analogy, example, what a poll might be.
Compared to the push of the.
Flat tire.
Maybe better tires for driving through snow.
Oh!
Have been invented.
Interesting. Yeah. So the notion there would be like, Okay, this will. This will help me be more performance oriented. And within a particular context.
But.
Yeah, in Montana, they think about that a lot. Whenever a new type of tire, everybody's excited.
Yeah. Got it? Any.
Perhaps, going downhill, or.
Though I have a more indirect example to share. Cause, I think it's relevant. Given that we're in the Bay Area.
I don't need a new car, but I really like the Tesla.
Right, and what it would say about me being here and fitting in.
So.
I know it's not a tire. So just I know I'm taking a little bit more of a leap. But the whole notion is that there's problems that people solve by either buying new cars or upgrading their cars or replacing things on their cars that break.
And then there's a whole notion of like.
I don't need a new car. I already have a car. It works.
But.
This car is going to make me feel differently or better, or has a promise of something that I'm excited about and drawn to.
So understanding the difference between a push and a pull with your customers is really important.
Because some of you had businesses that are inherently.
Can can live in the Push quadrant.
And don't even need many other forces to be at play to make progress, because you're dealing with someone who has an acute problem that you directly solve. And there's a functional, the relationship that you have with them that you can kind of bank on and and focus on. But more often than not all 4 quadrants are active for certain people in the sales and decision making process.
So the poll contrasts to the push.
You want to have in combination, right? So you don't want just people to have problems. You want them to get excited.
About becoming a better version of themselves by becoming your customer.
Right. What else is that going to help them become, rather than just addressing the issue? Will this make me happier, healthier? And what have you.
And then, when it comes to the forces of resistance.
So the habits and anxieties.
Another analogy that I really like to use. I like to talk about.
Switching operating systems. Anyone ever had to switch from Mac to PC or PC. To Mac.
If you've had to do that, then you probably understand these forces quite well, because for me.
I remember I was like this, really obnoxious, hardcore, PC. Nerd.
You know, as a kid.
And going into college, and I just looked. I frowned upon people who thought Mac was good, cause you couldn't change anything. You couldn't customize anything, and you know there's you had to pay a lot of money to have some fancy, shiny looking thing, and it just didn't. It wasn't as powerful as anything I could build. And I was just like this, totally judgmental kid.
And then.
I think in when I was in college. That's when the 1st iphone came out like, right when I was a freshman.
And I remember I got the iphone, even though I had a Dell Xvs laptop.
And I had to ask myself.
Why is my phone.
Better and faster to use in my laptop.
And then, all of a sudden, a year later, I find myself with a macbook.
So I just remember going through that journey, and being a total hypocrite, is switching the back and never looking back.
From having this like phenomenal initial product experience with the 1st iphone.
So I say all that to say. There's my habit of what I'm comfortable with in the present of. I know windows. I know the shortcuts. I know how it all works, and there's the anxiety of a new solution meaning like, I gotta learn a new way of doing things. There's a different button. There's new stuff to learn like. I don't have time for that. I'm just trying to pass my university classes.
So. And there's many other examples of these, but I just use those accessible ones, because I I think many of you all can relate to them.
But the journey for all of you is one, the 1, 2 punches.
What is going on in this user's journey and timeline. It will teach you to ask the right questions, to fill this out, and then 2.
What are these forces that are both promoting progress and resisting change?
That my potential customer is experiencing right now, and how can I better understand that.
Once you are able to document these.
2 things. Well.
With well defined.
Individuals who fit the right criteria that you're trying to learn the most about.
To Dave's point earlier.
You only need about 12 of these.
To get to some phenomenal insights that I would actually back you in making.
Substantial changes to either your product.
Your marketing and sales process.
Or your business overall.
And its direction.
I've.
Coach founders to make significant changes to their business.
Just with 10 to 15 of these high quality, because the patterns that will emerge will become very evident over time.
In the process of conducting these interviews.
So much, so.
That by the 10th or 11th conversation.
It's almost a formality that you're conducting it, because you can predict what they're going to say.
Because they fit into 1, 2, or 3 different categories that you've already uncovered.
From a set of jobs that they might be hiring you to do.
So that's.
The magic process that I'm alluding to. I can't guarantee or promise it, but I can absolutely, you know, provide you all with the best possible pathway to try to get there yourselves.
Alright. We got 2 questions.
Hugger, and then Kevin.
Yeah, quick.
Quick one. Can you go back to a slide where you have these looking, active looking thing? This is something that we've.
Struggled with. While we were conducting our interviews.
Application process. But we found that this, like I want to ask, is this set in stone like these steps that you know we have to take like, because usually, maybe it's because of the nature of our business.
The interviews that we conducted were okay. I wasn't thinking about this at all for a very long time, and then suddenly something happened. And boom. I have to think about it right now. Possibly look at it. I have to look at it, decided all at the same time.
So it was really hard to.
All of these different things.
And like I remember we we had an interview where you know the dude was like, well, we didn't care about this issue at all at all, or like we didn't think that this was a thing to be looked at. But suddenly.
People give us feedback from different channels, and we weren't able to look at them. And then, like suddenly, we have the really big deal to explain to our investors. And you know, we we have a lot of churn. So we immediately needed something to fix the problem.
So like I'm I'm really wondering. Are these steps set in stone, or you know.
Yeah.
How does this look like in the time window that we're trying to? Is it because some of these steps can simultaneously act at the same time.
At least to my experience.
So I think I really appreciate your question, and what I'll say is.
No, they're not completely set in stone, but they might be more.
Persistent than you might imagine. Given what I just heard you say.
So, even if there's a more expedited timeline for these events to happen.
It's still largely maps to these steps.
Some have a more condensed timeline, but more often than not.
That first.st
Happens a lot sooner than you may think.
And when you're having a conversation with someone, they might think in their mind that something was an immediate.
Choice or decision that happened out of nowhere, and it was a rapid process.
But if you dig enough, you might realize that there were more inputs leading up to their readiness to take action. In that moment.
But like you said like, I'll give the example right. I'm driving my car.
I get a flat tire that that's not really.
There's not a very like.
Long turnaround time from a moment where I need to make progress and the decision I have to make about what I'm going to do about it? Right? So that's the example that would, you know fit into, I think, what you're describing. But my only ask is that.
You.
Give this a little bit of time to settle in with the people you talk to.
Because I do find more often than not.
95% or more of the time when I'm doing this with all the companies that I've worked with.
There is more than enough to not only fill in the information presented here, but usually more.
So this is just a starting point for most of you. Some you may have more condensed, but many of you will have more expansion.
Around.
I think Kevin had his hand raised, and then Monica.
Yeah, I think this question is slightly more specific to.
Me and Nick.
Our purchasing.
Our buyer is unique in the sense that students use it.
But parents make the final.
Make that make the actual purchase.
Or so we think, and I think in the process of.
When we do these interviews.
How would you.
I guess decide.
How many students, how important this interview to students, how important to interview.
The parents at Maket final purchase our assumption. And maybe it's a risky assumption is that.
If students do, the research, parents always say Yes.
But I think.
That assumption would be dangerous, because with the parents I had said no, they probably had their own decision to say, no, they don't.
Buy this product. Well, we would never hear from them, because.
There. We didn't have input from.
The students that asked the parents and their parents know if this, if this question makes sense.
No, it makes perfect sense. So there are plenty of examples where the customer is different than the consumer.
Yeah.
And this is also related to B, 2 B. So good example for B, 2 B. Right, because you have the person who decides to buy. But then there's the people who actually have to use it. And those are 2 different groups of people.
Right.
So does anyone have any thoughts or gut instincts about what would be recommended for Kevin situation, or others.
Actually, my question was identical to Kevin's.
Perfect.
So I don't have recommendations.
I usually have been targeting the decision maker. Like it depends on the company size. Right? You just have more and more stakeholders as your prospect gets bigger and bigger.
So for these. When I did this interview, I for the for the smaller companies I just picked like.
The main business group decision maker. But yeah, I still have the same question.
Excellent. It sounds like either Dave or George want to chime in.
Yeah, I was, gonna say, usually, what I do is particularly with B. Twob, I recommend that you. I just establish a buying center.
And a buying center will have personas for people who are making the decision using the product. Even gatekeepers, people who are gonna say, no.
And then and then interview all the different sort of personas that you're dealing with.
Because, for example, a lot of times people don't realize like.
Yeah, the Cfo actually gets involved in this decision, right? And even though the Cfo doesn't really is not the primary user, they could say no. And so you need to figure out.
Why anyone could say yes or they could say no. And then, oftentimes marketing, typically what we'll do is we'll create marketing collateral specifically for the Cfo.
So that we can answer their questions differently than someone else. The Siso now is really important.
So, having understanding what the size about is also very useful. So that's.
My thoughts.
Excellent.
George.
Yeah, no, basically, I was gonna say that I did the same thing is interview the multiple personas.
That would be.
Yeah.
Necessary for the process.
I am really digging the vibe of this group sounds like we're all in alignment on the same page. What we like to think about how we can help each other. So I'm grateful for everybody chiming in and helping out here. So I'm gonna wrap up here a few more slides, few more things to share. And then we can conclude questions and allude to the coming days. And what else? We're gonna cover.
Cause. This is just. Part one.
But
I don't know if you can tell by now, but what we're talking about is energy.
Essentially. And that's what we're trying to dig into when you're doing these interviews and trying to understand your customers. Where is the energy coming from, and what kinds of energy are we trying to understand and deal with.
So there's a few layers and types of energy.
That are here.
So there's the social energy which is.
How do others see me?
In this decision that I have to make.
So I think someone else gave an example earlier, when we were having the b 2 b conversation.
About. Well, will this help me? You know, with my job? Or if I make the wrong decision here, will it.
You know, end my opportunity for employment or promotion.
So there's a social energy that is at play both with that and the example that Liliana shared earlier with the air Pod interview that we did at our university course, that we teach.
So.
There's a notion of social kind of awareness and impact and pressure that goes into certain purchasing decisions that get made.
There's the functional piece which.
Is arguably like one of the most fundamentally important which is, does it actually.
Get the job done.
Right? Does it do it well relative to others?
Is the function. There.
Sometimes.
Something can be sold.
Without the function.
But that is a very, very hard thing to do, and not recommend it.
That's usually when you're buying something for.
Some other reason.
Rather than the actual functional need. There might be more social and emotional forces at play, but you end up not using it. So I don't know if any of you all have paid for apps that are on your phone, that you've never used or have only used once and never gone back to again.
Or maybe there's a product. There's something that you have in your home that you bought because you thought you were. Gonna use it all the time, and then.
You realize that it either didn't work or not nearly as good as something else that you're able to do.
But that tends to happen a lot when we buy things on the functional dimension. And then, lastly, the emotional piece.
Which I think is arguably the most powerful and.
I think from an advertising standpoint, it's 1 that you know many
Businesses have learned to prioritize more in recent decades. But it's all about me.
Right. How does this make me a better version of myself? How does this give me the self-efficacy and excitement about that new and better way of living that I want to be by purchasing and consuming these sets of products and services that I'm paying money for.
It's all about the individual and how they want to feel about themselves.
So, understanding these 3 layers of of influence from an energy standpoint, as you do, your discovery and research.
Is is super important. And again, I can't emphasize it enough.
Very intuitive.
When we talk about direct consumer purchases, because we all do that as individual consumers of things every single day.
But I can tell you with full confidence that.
These are all at play.
Within a professional business context for those purchasers and decision makers arguably even more so than the individual like they've mentioned earlier. Liliana, you wanted to chime in.
When we teach this, I like to make a point that these energies, the different categorizations here sit on top of the 4 forces. So the timeline is completely separate.
The 4 forces.
Are part of this, but.
Everything can be
Categorize as any of them. So for social it could be a push, pull, habit, or anxiety for functional. It could be any of the 4 same with emotional. So a lot of people get stuck and think emotional is only pushes or functional is only polls, whatever it is. These rather just sit on top and are like a completely separate axis.
To categorize every single set of energies or.
Feelings that a customer could have.
And then the timeline is something that you're filling out during the interview, and the energies here and the forces are things that you're doing during the debrief, and we'll get into how to interview and what the debrief is tomorrow.
But just know that this is something that is very similar to the forces, and it's like a complete different axis. So you can start thinking about the mattress interview. And in your head categorizing. Okay, what did I see? That was social, functional, and emotional. And which of the 4 forces, each of those things.
If that makes sense.
I think that was very well, said Liliana, and and I guess, just to reiterate one other thing.
I know it says I realize like I look at the bottom of the footer, and then it says, tech stars.
We're very proud to be at service, but I will say that we are the only program that.
Teaches this.
There's a different I guess overall like kind of teaching and framework. That's I. I would argue a bit more like straightforward and simplified.
That is more widespread at techs, and that's all good. And we support that, too. But we have a specialization here that we're really proud of, and that we like to go deep and dig in before program starts. So that's what you all are getting from us.
Okay, so.
Few final things here. One is understanding supply side. So I think this is the point we've been making the entire time. But just to bring it all the way home.
Most of the time I am dealing with founders and investors and thinkers in business in general.
Who default to supply thinking.
It's always about what you're offering and what you're providing, and and whether it's working or it isn't, and why.
And that's where most of our time gets spent with who we talk about where we get advice of the mentors and investors you're gonna deal with. There's gonna be a lot of energy around the how and the when and the how much.
You know about what it is you're supplying.
To the customer, and what works and what doesn't.
So what technology you have.
How you make money.
You know what matters to you with your strategy and your business.
The most impressive. Both investors and founders that I have worked with and perceive are the ones that do not default.
To supply commentary, or thinking at all.
And they always frame what they're doing and why they're doing it around.
The customers that they're serving and who they're helping.
So say what you will about, you know, liking him or not.
There's a person by the name of Steve Jobs who.
In many respects with business. I admire, and have learned a lot from.
And.
If you watch any or all of what he says. When he was speaking.
His demand. Side, like way of speaking, is like very prominent, and it stands out to me. And it was clearly an influence, I think, to this overall framework, and how it came to be.
Because when you hear him speak, and he talks about apple, and how they try to.
Design and build things with the customer in mind.
It was. It was clearly in the organization's DNA.
At the time when they were rolling out a lot of their innovative products. And I remember, just as a young person learning about business at the time.
Being really enamored with their way of thinking in their approach to both advertising, marketing, and sales.
And technology overall and what to build.
So.
Keeping that in mind. I my dream is for all of you coming out of this program to be armed with the demand side.
A way of thinking and framing what you do, because I do think that.
From an investment standpoint.
The pattern recognition for an investor to see a founder or CEO.
That can tell a story, not just in the spirit of how awesome their business is, and how exciting and investable it's going to be.
But also just how successful.
They're going to make.
Individual. Consumers and businesses in the world!
Better off because of what they're here to do with the vision they have for their business.
Alright! So now to get even more nerdy.
Liliana promised that what we were talking about would map to company systems.
From A, b 2 b standpoint, and here it is.
So that timeline that we just spoke about.
The reason I am was trying to tell you that it's more relevant than you might think is because it was actually designed with these company systems in mind.
So at any given company, you're gonna have marketing right where you're gonna have to make people aware of what you're doing and to get them interested in what you're doing.
And then once they're aware and interested.
There's a conversion that happens where now they're ready to become customers of yours. And now there's there's a conversation that happens about what decision to make and what to pay, and whether to pay, and what they're getting for paying.
And then ultimately, once they've paid and they've become your customer. How do you make sure that they're successful? How do you retain them when you lose them, how do you make sure you build in ways to either get them back or learn from their, you know, experience, and why they're no longer interested in being a customer of yours.
So all 3 of these, like layers of organizations, journey and dealing with the customer connect to that timeline.
So I know the visuals might make it seem a little bit more.
You know, cartoonish, if you will, but these are processes that connect to like large enterprise companies, and how they operate.
So I hope that resonates a little bit for those of you that are thinking about this framework in the context of B, 2 B.
But just everyone in general. These will incorporate into your into your company. I think in a really.
Seamless way. If if you, if you take a.
The approach seriously.
Cool so I wanna wrap with questions. But I also wanted to just mention a few more things. So I mentioned that I know clay clay the number of years ago passed away.
But before he did Bob, who I'll also
Explain and share more about and introduce you all to now. Brought me to Harvard Business School to work with Clay on a few things, and Clay helped me out with a project that I'll share more about in my founder story. But he is extremely tall.
Like I'm I'm a short guy. I'm 5, 8, but like play is like, I don't know. 6.
7. Something like that giant Dude.
But he did this one thing. He gets on one knee, and that's just like a humility exercise that he I don't know how he described it, but it was kind of cute. But yeah, I'll forever appreciate, admire, Clay for everything that he's done, both for business and.
For us, and and.
For for Bob here, so.
This is the mattress. Interview. Guy.
This is the guide that you all heard speak and and dig into things, and he's the guy who introduced me to jobs to be done out of a base camp.
And I want to tell you Bob's story. Really fast. And then, Liliana, how am I on time? I have like 20min.
Oh, yeah, we're doing well.
A.
Okay, we're we're doing well. Okay. So to tell you, Bob story, I wanna talk about these 2 things.
They might know what these are.
What's on the top? What's on the bottom feel free to unmute.
Is it a Mars and a snicker.
No.
I could be wrong.
Wait!
I'll say it's a Milky way, and.
There's twix and snicker. Yeah, snickers.
Dominic was correct. It's just different in in Europe.
I think.
Wait, so wait.
Wait, Dominique, what are you calling the one on the top.
I think it's a more. We call it a Mars Bar.
And.
It's the same as an okay.
Yeah.
Oh, so Mars Bar is Milky Way. It's some, and okay.
Chloe confirmed. We have our European.
Wow!
Okay. Milky Way.
Well, Mars is the name of the company. Mars is the name of the company. So that's interesting.
And we provide.
But they're they're branded as Martha's. Yeah.
Interesting.
A Milky way in England doesn't have caramel. It's just.
I'll bring them to Sf. Anyway, we digress.
Hey? Musketeers.
Well, I mean look, I'm I'm just enjoying this.
Yeah, exactly. We have both the Milky Way and Mars.
Yeah.
I just know how universal food and and snacks are to people so like. These are perfect examples that just bring us all together.
I agree.
So alright, and Dave, I think, got it, too. So it's a milky way on top, and the snickers on the bottom.
Alright!
So this is where the story with Bob begins.
At least the one that I'm familiar with.
So here in the States.
They're.
You know, we're we're Western advertising has its own like kind of way of doing things.
But there's this, I think. I believe this was a super bowl. Commercial. I I need to verify, for sure. But this is at least a commercial for snickers. But I want to share with you all the stickers. Commercial. That's very brief.
But we're gonna have a quick conversation about it, and then talk about a few
Other development, here.
So let me make sure this works.
Can I hope you enjoy that snickers.
Does it sound working?
Happy peanuts.
Over chocolate, covered mountaintops.
Don't want to fall.
Prancing no good in the meadow, sings a song of satisfaction to the world.
That's right.
Alright, so.
What's going on here. You're at Mars. You're working on the snickers team, and you're coming up with a very expensive commercial to run.
What do we? What are we selling.
What's our message?
Focusing.
They're focusing on the features of the of the.
Snickers, bar.
Man.
Describing exactly. It's made of.
Yeah.
They're selling joy.
Yeah, they're selling an experience rather than a product.
Okay. Morgan.
Feel like it's just workloads, but work looks boring like it's like a drab carpet shop. And now he's got this like a little minute in his day. That's bright and nice.
Right? Right? So it's like, maybe the.
Dealing with some sort of mundanity, right?
Anything else.
Because they spend a lot of money to to run this.
Add.
It's kind of like the.
And I used to look at. I used to have one of the large corporations and I would often stay late in the office, and
And one of the higher floors, and the only thing we had on that floor was a vending machine, and snickers was actually the best thing they had in that vending machine.
Oftentimes I was quite enjoyable to have a snickers. I think.
I could resonate with what's going on.
I can. I can hear you, man, I can hear it. I'm sorry I I can't relate to what you guys are describing, but I can imagine, you know, like.
Just we need something we need something to deal with, just having to sit around here and not do much. So I guess that's what? Yeah, I think that was the intent behind this ad. Now, my other question to you all is,
Why wasn't this working.
Because when I'm sharing with you is.
Is pre-progress. So Snickers was in a position when they were running this ad where they were at risk.
They were struggling as a as a product, and Mars the company that owns snickers was essentially considering. Sun setting.
The the candy bar at the time.
So we're like, this isn't working out like we're not selling. And we need to do something.
So one of Bob's.
Friends.
Worked at Mars.
And called Bob up.
Because Bob was already doing a lot of work in in products.
And consumer products, but in a very different context. And they flew in Bob, who's from Detroit?
Into New Jersey, where the Mars kind of headquarters is.
To come, investigate, to figure out what was going on.
So Bob comes in, sees the ads that they're running, sees what they're doing, and Mars had an interesting dilemma where they're like, well, Milky Way.
You know, and snickers.
They're.
We were trying to figure out what the difference is between them and why people are consuming them. There's not much of a difference right now from our our research and understanding of what's happening.
So Bob, even in his journey of visiting the Mars factory, found himself still questioning what was going on, and not really clear.
On finding a better way.
To help sneakers succeed.
And understanding what the difference between stickers and Milky Way even was.
So, from what I can tell, sounds like some of you all might know, because we've been in the world for a few decades. Now, most of us, and you all might have a better understanding of these products. Now.
But I have to tell you back then.
Around the same time the clay was dealing with Mcdonald's.
Bob was here trying to figure out what was going on with these candy bars.
And he found himself heading back to Detroit.
In New Jersey airport.
With these same questions on his mind.
So he's at the airport still, unclear. What.
He even experienced and saw from having these conversations with these executives and marketers and product people.
And he chances upon someone who goes to a kiosk at the airport and.
A snickers.
Bob told me this story when I 1st got to know him, that his mother, when he was a kid, gave him a 3 foot.
Meaning. If he's within 3 feet of you, he can talk to you.
So he followed this man to his.
Gate in the airport, and he sat near him.
He observed him, and what he did with his snickers bar.
This man proceeded to sit down, open up his laptop.
And before using and typing on his laptop he ate the snickers bar and then started to send emails.
Bob introduces himself, and has a conversation with him to ask him.
What job essentially, he was hiring that snickers bar to do.
And the gentleman proceeds to tell him that.
He.
Would like.
To sleep on the airplane.
And wanted enough energy to power through knocking out his work before he had the board.
This was interesting to Bob. So then Bob goes back to the same kiosk area. And what do you think he does?
Follow somewhere.
Any guesses.
What's that?
Follow someone else.
Exactly. He waits.
He's like, all right. Who is gonna be next.
Who is going to buy.
A Milky Way.
I've seen a snickers.
But what's happening with the Milky Way? Because that was the job I flew out here to do. And now I'm heading back, and I still don't have an answer.
He waits, and he waits, and he waits.
And it turns out, when he spoke to the cashier.
That they are flippingers like hotcakes. There.
But they sell very little.
Any.
Milky Ways.
So Bob proceeds to continue to have this puzzle on his mind of what's going on.
So he goes home.
And now he's wondering. Okay, I've seen snickers in real time myself, directly get purchased in the field.
But I'm not sure who's buying milky ways or who's consuming them.
Comes home in Detroit. Puzzled.
Explains the story to his wife.
Who the heck is buying Milky Way, and when are they buying them, and why are they buying them.
His wife looks at him.
Smiles, stands up.
Walks over to the kitchen.
And goes.
I have a Milky Way.
She reaches behind.
The fridge in a cabinet, pulls down a bowl.
And out comes a snick Milky Way.
And.
This gave Bob a hint.
He went back to Mars.
Looked at the data.
And it turns out.
That.
The consumption context.
From Milky Way, and snickers were entirely different.
And far more people were consuming Milky Way.
As a replacement.
Or dessert.
For extended consumption. Times.
Relative to snickers.
Turns out, even at the time that more women were purchasing bars than men based on the data that they had been gathering.
And.
I believe the snickers is consumed to anywhere from 60 seconds to 90 seconds.
Whereas the Milky Way consumption time was anywhere from 10 to 15min.
People would even put their handy bars in the freezer.
To make them colder, to last longer, and to be a replacement for things like ice cream.
So when they looked at the data and they did the research, and they figured out that the competitive sets for a snickers and the Milky Way were so fundamentally different.
It opened up a whole new world.
Of how they could think about both marketing.
And selling the product as well as how to reorient the product, to address the jobs.
That they need to be done.
So here's what came of it.
Put here.
Oh!
Mike, what is your deal? Come on, man. You've been riding me all day. You're playing like Betty White out there, girlfriend.
Better.
About that.
That hurt? You're not. You're hungry. Snickers satisfies.
You're not you when you're hungry.
So.
You all probably remember this because we came up in the era when snickers.
Came to prominence and became the number one candy bar in the world.
So again, can't give all credit just to Bob and this insight, but certainly set the company up to have a new direction for their understanding of.
The job that the product was being hired to do.
So.
Thought I was.
Give you all that that context. I don't know if you all have any questions or comments about it.
But I do know that the big question that comes up next, usually when I'm dealing with this, what is a candy bar have to do with building.
A new startup or a business, especially ones that are in tech or deep tech.
But before I move on I thought I would give you all that.
I mean, I have us.
Yeah, please.
I have a simpler question.
Does these 2 bars actually taste the same in the Us.
Tell me, everybody? Do they taste the same.
Yeah, what's the difference?
I'm allergic, so I have no idea.
I I think snickers is a peanuts in it. And.
That's the difference.
Mockingway does, does not just like Carameli.
I don't even know it's caramel, but it's like fluffy.
Nope.
The inside.
Arama and Nukat. Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
Okay. And and this.
Yeah. Go. Ahead. Sorry.
But no sorry I nothing else. After that.
Yeah, my, my second.
Quite interested.
Main.
And.
You know.
Speakers should be the name of a racing horse that the Mars family owned back in.
So it has something to, you know, being active while milka sounds a bit more like, you know. Milk is more.
You know, closer to sleeping, etc. So maybe that was the initial goal itself, or.
Maybe I'm off shooting too much here.
Yeah. And I mean, I'm not the professional either. Here I'm I'm selling. I'm I'm sharing an anecdotal story right? Obviously from from someone who I know and work have worked with. But I would describe a Milky Way as smooth.
Yeah. Then sleep packed.
Whereas a snickers bar comes off as very like, almost like a power bar or an energy bar. Right? There's like a chunkiness to it. It's satiating. It feels like you're eating a meal.
Right.
Yeah.
That's right.
George.
Yeah, okay.
Oh, no, I was just gonna say it's kind of interesting, as like a prelude to the whole focus on high protein.
Yes.
Snacks and all that. Now, like it's sort of like a.
So, like, yeah.
Yeah.
Pretty cool to that.
Quite interesting. Yeah.
So so. And and these are old stories, right? So I know they're not as modern or as relevant as some of the examples that we're gonna share with you going forward. But I always think it's fun. Given that I knew the people who.
You know, kind of began these journeys and their respective stories. I always like to share it as the 1st phase of introducing jobs.
To the class, but.
Again.
You all aren't selling candy bars here.
So.
The main thing that we're gonna be able to derive from this is.
The languages and the processes, and the domino effect of what's going on from the consumer journey from the beginning.
In the chain of events that undeniably cause the problem. So I thought I would like.
Give you all the origin story and the foundation. We've learned a lot more as time has gone on about how this impacts early stage startups in different industries and technologies. But.
From Mcdonald's to Mars and Milky Wayne, snickers to milkshakes.
I think we're now in a place where we can move into. You know how this is relevant to all of you.
So one thing that I always like to make sure that you all understand is the difference between what we call a big hire and a little higher.
So a big hire is the point of commitment. That's when you know consumption is actually happening. From the onset. When I make the purchase decision.
A little higher, something else that might happen, which is.
Once they purchase the product or service. And there's these little.
Points of of utilization along the way.
That are slightly, you know, different.
Then the original expected utilization.
So this can offer pivots or forks in the road, or.
Additional features. Other things that you can do to shift or enhance. You know your product offering.
And it's really helpful to keep that in mind as well as you go, because.
Entire businesses can be developed.
From those little higher examples. So one another example that I know Bob worked on early on was.
Does anyone familiar with.
Nyquil.
You won't ever use Nyquil.
So nyquil.
Is helping you when you're sick, right? It's helping you with like, basically the cough cough medicine.
There were 2 other jobs that ended up emerging from the Nyquil use case because people were hiring Nyquil. Even when.
They weren't sick, and people were hiring Nyquil, even though they didn't want to sleep.
Does anybody know what products may have been forked off from Nyquil.
To address those.
Needs.
Sequel and Dayquil.
Exactly.
Disease quill is to help you sleep, even though you're not sick.
Dayquil is to help you when you're sick. But you're not trying to sleep.
So they didn't come out with all 3 of those at the same time.
Nyquil was being hired, and the little higher for it were these other use cases that were less relevant for helping me sleep or helping me with sickness.
So these are the types of examples and references you all can keep in mind with some of your consumers to understand. Okay, what are they hiring me to do, and is it everything, or is it part of what I'm offering.
As far as, like my enjoyment of jobs to be done, it helps with a lot of organizational.
So it'll help you with decision making.
Right. So if you have a debate, or you know you're unclear on what the right path to go down is.
Going back to what our jobs to be done are, or which one that we want to actually accomplish or achieve.
Helps Ground the conversation and Decision Making Process.
It also helps with optimizing our resources. Are we directing our energy towards doing the job.
Or are we distracted and working on a few other things that we're unclear on, whether it's important or helpful to address.
It's also inspiring. It means so much to know that you're actually solving the customer's problem and addressing what they truly need. Your help with.
As opposed to things that you're either hoping or guessing.
Might be important to them.
And then, last, but not least, it allows us to more objectively orient.
Our success metrics and how we're actually evaluating our business to know that we're actually.
Customer centric and what we're doing and how we're helping our customers succeed.
This last one I can relate to personally right now, in the sense of being a tech.
One phrase that is more prominent now than ever before is.
Bigger, isn't better, is better.
So when we think about our business of investors.
For many years in recent years at least.
There has been an effort to raise lots of money and to scale and to invest in more and more businesses.
What we're now talking about, which I'm very proud of.
Is.
We don't need to invest in more businesses.
The businesses that we are invested in. We need to do a better job.
So I'm really excited about the current direction of of where all our conversation is happening as a team and as a company.
And it's absolutely oriented around success with their businesses and their satisfaction of our program experience and our role as their early investors.
So the overall process for you all that you're gonna learn in the coming days and over the next few weeks is how to frame the learning questions. What am I trying to learn by conducting research and doing interviews? In the 1st place.
Who should I talk to? How do I screen for the right people to recruit, to speak to an interview.
How do I conduct the interviews in a way that gives me the information I need to have the better understanding that will help me orient my business successfully.
How do I then, once I conduct the interview, have a debrief that actually allows me to derive the forces of progress, and understand the energies and motivations that are involved.
In that.
And then, once I have that data set at least 10 to 15 of those.
How do I analyze it? To understand what pat underlying patterns exist.
That have a causal.
Connection to the consumer behavior and the decision to purchase.
Once I have that information. Now I can detail what I believe the jobs to be done might be.
And once I have those jobs bucketed and defined.
I can understand what the implications to prototype and change my business would be.
Both with respect to marketing and sales.
Product development and overall company vision.
And strategic direction and technology.
Liliana.
I was gonna say that I think the one that is extremely underrated here, that most of you, probably even reading this glossed over is framing the learning question. So like a lot of people want to get right into. Okay, who do I interview? How do I find those interviewees and all of that.
We focus a lot on getting the learning question correct.
And I'll work with each of you on that.
So that the Jt. Round that you're doing in this group, like group exercise will do over the next few weeks has a purpose. So that'll be different for each of you. I've already heard some of you put out ideas of what you kind of need right now, what you need to figure out. But the every other step here will be useless or futile. If you're learning question is not framed specifically and correctly and geared towards something that.
Actually valuable for your business to learn. So some people will come out of you know, having a good screening that's nice and narrow and doing a set of jobs to be done interviews with us, and they'll tell us I didn't really learn anything I didn't already know, or that wasn't useful.
And then I asked them, Well, what did you set out to learn? And so they hadn't thought about it, or it wasn't something that was actually useful things like that. So start thinking now about what learning, question, or learning objective you might want for this round of drops to be done, and remember that you can always do more in the future. We're just all gonna do one together to to learn over the next few weeks.
So the typo on this conversation, and then final, wrap up with a few questions before we conclude.
In summary.
What we're also doing is you're just simply interviewing people who switch from one thing to another. Right? Usually it's a switch. There's other criteria sometimes, but that's.
Very simplified way to put it, understand their decision making process. And you analyze the forces that make them switch.
So that's what we're here to help you all do over the next couple of weeks. We do this before the program starts, because it's our bread and butter, and by understanding this framework well.
Once the program starts in September 9, th you're gonna have wind in your sales. You're gonna have a better understanding of who you're helping. And you're gonna know how to take advantage of the community that we're getting ready to introduce you to here in San Francisco, and well, beyond.
So.
That's part one.
The people you interview have to be.
People, that.
Are, con like considering your product, or when you're saying switch from one product to another.
Great question.
Does it. Could it be that they switched from.
One competitor to another competitor.
It's much more important to interview people who, I would say, are not.
Nearly prospective customers, but people who have.
Had some sort of switch moment occur.
Okay.
So we're gonna talk more about this in the next few sessions. But what that means is.
You want people who within the past.
Ideally 3 to 6 months, if not more recent.
Have made a switch.
Either they fired a product or they've hired a product.
They've done something that indicates behavior that you want to better understand. That tells you more about.
Who you want to help.
Great.
So one mistake a lot of people make when they do. Customer interviews is they try to talk to people who they think.
Could be their customers.
But they're just talking to them, and they don't understand the timing.
Or the placement of.
What behaviors or actions they've taken recently that would even indicate that they would be a good person to to learn from.
So basically, Annie, if you have someone who is hired.
Either a director indirect to reliable.
That's who you want to talk to because you want to go. I want to understand your decision to to sign up for this product or service.
Right.
So let's unpack. What led you to do that? Because by me, learning that.
I know what you're looking for, because I think ultimately.
I might be the right answer for you, but I'm not sure.
Correct.
Cool. I love that. That's cause. That was where I was. Getting stuck is like how to pick the right customers. So that's that's a huge answer. So thank you.
One other thing, though, Annie is, I know you have customers. So the other thing that's helpful is, once you get a customer.
You can wait a few weeks, but not too long.
Interview them.
And go. What got you here?
You know. Let's talk about what got you here? Not about, because a lot of the times, a lot of my founders. They want to interview customers that they get to to basically feed their ego.
Yeah.
And go. Tell me how great I am. Tell me what you like about me, and tell me you know.
Why do you like us like? No, no.
You don't want to talk about.
Now you want to talk about before they found you, what they were dealing with, and how they got to.
That's the journey that we want to understand here.
Okay, great. That's awesome.
Phyllis.
So it's kind of a like general question.
And maybe the basics. But.
Like I'm thinking about in the Mcdonald's makeshake. Example, we.
Heard that, like the health.
Of the makeshake buyers by. It's like before 8 am. And.
I'm just curious about like the how we're not focusing on, because maybe we can.
Maybe think of some things to also include them. But perhaps we're not doing it because we don't have the like common.
The aspects of them.
But actually, this is something I have in mind to understand like.
We have the people we can like connect to with the things we know about them. And, like the other.
Kind of gray area that we don't. And I'm just curious how to like maybe reach out to them or.
Should we? Should our priority be? That's for, like the 1st one.
Right? So one thing we're also gonna get into in the coming days is how to have a well defined screening. Who do we talk to? And how do we get to them?
So we will dig into that in the next couple days.
So if I don't properly address what you're asking by, then let me know.
Okay. Thanks.
Couple minutes left any other.
Bonus round questions or feedback.
Hope this has been helpful and good use of your time.
That's great!
Neil and I were thinking, what next steps do we have for them for tomorrow? And I was saying, Digest. So that's your homework. Just reflect.
I.
Just take it in. Yeah.
Tomorrow. I'd love to hear any kind of like insights or thoughts that you guys had as this marinated for the rest of the day before we start tomorrow, because.
Obviously there was so much thrown at you, and I'm very interested to see how that settles into your into your brains.
Yeah. And for some of you I know that this is a reinforcing mechanism, meaning you already intuitively understand this, or have your own experience.
That, you know, connects with these ideas, because this is not proprietary information.
These are things that.
Successful businesses and people in the world have figured out in their own way.
And we're just giving a little bit more color and maybe framing.
To understanding this in our own in our own way. That hopefully applies to to you all. But, I'm really excited to to go down the journey of learning this together.
One thing that I always take pride in is every founder that I invest in to some extent those jobs. And when you hear other people say that they know jobs.
And you spend 5 or 10min talking to them about what they understand about it.
You'll know the difference in our training relative to where you can learn this anywhere else.
So really proud of that.
But yeah, with that, let's give you all a minute of your life and time back. We'll hang here in case anyone wants to talk further, and then, Agent Lunar, I know I'm doing a product, Demo, with you all right after this, right? So.
Looking forward to that.
Thanks, and.
But I'll see you all tomorrow.